hello and welcome to did you know gaming
extra in this episode we'll be vying for
the attention of your luck holes because
today we'll be exploring trivia relating
to video games soundtracks Donkey Kong
Country is considered a standout title
for the Super Nintendo often seen by
many to be the pinnacle of platformers
developed by rare during their intimate
relationship with Nintendo the game
pushed the boundaries of the console
with not just its detailed pre-rendered
3d characters but also its incredible
sound scapes the game's music was tied
heavily to its visuals providing a sense
of atmosphere with each track that
combined environmental sounds with
catchy melodies david wise composed the
majority of the game's soundtrack though
one track was merely adopted and
arranged by wise for use as funky Kong
steam originally created as a peaceful
killer instinct created by Robin Bean
'land why started composing the
soundtrack as a freelancer and believed
the work that he'd done would never be
released he understood the importance of
the Donkey Kong character to Nintendo
and assumed that his tracks would
ultimately just be replaced by a
Japanese composer instead contrary to
his self-doubt wise was taken on as a
full-time musician at rare after he
finished the game's music inspirations
for Donkey Kong countries music included
koji kondo x' work on the mario and
zelda series and a variety of film
soundtracks that were created using
synthesizers another inspiration was the
soundtrack to an earlier Super Nintendo
title clock composed by Tim and Jeff
fallen Tim fallin is actually a
considerably inspirational composer for
video games being known for going above
and beyond nothing epitomizes this
dedication to the craft better than the
title track to the NES adaptation of
pictionary
going back to Nintendo titles though one
game with a distinct and renowned
soundtrack actually doesn't have such a
happy story behind it
while rare hired David wise full-time
leading to a strong career composing for
games the same couldn't be said for
Hajime Hirasawa ex composer for Nintendo
after joining the company in 1990 he
would only create three soundtracks time
twists for the Famicom disk system
superscope 6 and starfox for the Super
Nintendo after only working with the
videogame giant for a couple of years
Hirasawa left the company allegedly
after a dispute
according to Dylan Cuthbert a programmer
from Argonauts software who worked on
starfox Hirasawa had worked to bring the
game soundtrack to retail having
orchestrated the Arrangements
independently recording the game's
tracks using real instruments during
these early days of the industry and
with Harris our being a traditional
musician he had simply come to the
assumption that he held some ownership
over his compositions as a result there
was a dispute between Hirasawa and
Nintendo over the rights to the game's
music Hirasawa left Nintendo just a few
months later before going on to form his
own company faith incorporated an IT
company that would end up pioneering the
technology behind ringtones in older
mobile phones being the origin to the
concept of digital distribution of
ringtones Dylan Cuthbert believes that
he actually still holds an audio
cassette of the soundtrack created by
Hirasawa though this cannot be confirmed
and it's really quite unlikely it will
ever surface koji kondo perhaps the
longest-running composer with Nintendo
has had a strong career creating catchy
tunes that have remained with many
throughout their lives
seeing Hardware improve over the years
it's easy to notice the advancement of
Nintendo's visuals but this continued
improvement in tech has also improved
the capabilities of game audio with
Super Mario 64
Kondo was able to use the improved
hardware to add subtle effects to music
during gameplay such as when a player
goes under or above ground or when
diving underwater
[Music]
these changes are made to better amass a
player into the game's atmosphere but
this technique of using audio to betray
a game's atmosphere came earlier with
the likes of Ecco the Dolphin for the
Mega Drive Ecco the Dolphin composer
Spencer Nilsson tried to create a score
inspired by the sound of the ocean
attempting to create digital instruments
that seemed almost natural to the sea as
the game featured a distinct lack of
people it seemed only right the game's
audio should similarly lack the
impression of anything man-made that
said the soundtrack was also inspired by
famed human band Pink Floyd sometimes
secrets and early ideas can even be
uncovered through music with cuphead
don't deal with the devil an early
version of the game's plot was uncovered
through data mining being done so
because the developers left and unused
though fully produced musical track
detailing these early events the lyrics
are using games can even wind up in odd
places Sonic the Hedgehog 2 wasn't just
an iconic title that sprung Sonic
further into gaming limelight but has
also helped established a key fact
amongst many in the gaming community the
Sega Genesis sound ship slaps chemical
plant zone features a track with a lot
of nice bass but strangely this tune
isn't exclusive to Sonic the Hedgehog 2
somehow a game found built into a
variety of different Samsung phone
models prior to the age of touchscreens
called jump boy makes use of this exact
same song
whether or not the company properly
licensed this track we're not sure it
isn't just Sega that saw their toons
repurposed outside of their properties
in fact Nintendo saw their iconic music
be used within a game based on another
icon the V Smile an educational home
games console created by VTech ran games
which were sold individually on
cartridges known as smart ridges in
total 69 smart Rajas were produced
normally based on licensed characters
Shrek dragon's tail is one of the
system's more popular titles and
features a lineup of Shrek characters in
situations that will teach children's
simple word and math problems though
strangely some of the game's music is
actually entirely lifted from a Nintendo
property The Legend of Zelda Ocarina of
Time several tracks are actually used
including the Lost Woods
[Music]
and kokiri forest
what HIPAA no kyoutei and the house
theme
[Music]
from obvious copy-pasting to something a
little less cut-and-dry the iconic main
theme for Metal Gear Solid composed by
tappy became embroiled in controversy
after users online discovered that the
theme had potentially been plagiarized
from a classical piece created by
composer Georgi Vasilyevich spirit of in
1974 as part of the soundtrack for the
musical adaptation of Alexander
Pushkin's metal
[Music]
an unsuspecting Kojima was played the
track during an interview with Russian
Games magazine egomania Kojima appeared
to be confused upon hearing it and soon
after Konami wad to make the track
disappear originally set to appear in
Metal Gear Solid portable ops it was
removed prior to the game's release the
theme also didn't appear at all in the
fourth main line entry in the series
guns of the Patriots
it seems this didn't just affect Konami
and Metal Gear exclusively as by data
mining Super Smash Brothers Brawl the
track can also be found though it
ultimately doesn't appear in the final
game
however the theme has since appeared in
the mgs HD collection as well as
reprints of the game's official
soundtracks so one can only assume the
matter was either forgotten ignored or
resolved behind closed doors one old
arcade game actually has commercial
music in it though later ports had it
removed bomb Jack created by Tecmo
featured several licensed tracks for the
games first level the background music
comes from the song at the end of
episodes of the Japanese cartoon series
spoon Obus on which originally aired in
1983 the same time as bomb Jack began
development
the game's second round music is
actually a classic Beatle song lady
Madonna rights had been paid for all of
the licensed music at the time but later
ports would be released with replaced
soundtracks even the game sequel bomb
jak2 featured the theme from Thundercats
[Music]
though the reason behind this was
because the game was originally intended
to be a tie-in title to the series
though the license was dropped the game
Reese kind-- but the music not removed
now it's time for this episode's random
piece of trivia and this time we'll be
looking at Pokemon Sun and Moon in the
games pokedex entry for young goose it
states that the species and its evolved
form gumshoes aren't native to the llola
region in which the game is set but
rather that they were imported from
another region it implies that they had
been brought into a lola as a way to
handle the widespread population of
ratata and Raticate on the islands
however the two different lines of
species rarely encounter one another as
youngest and gumshoes are diurnal
operating largely within the day while
ratata and Raticate are nocturnal this
relationship is actually a reference to
a real issue with in Hawaii when in the
1800's there was a widespread shortage
of sugarcane crops due to a surge in the
population of Polynesian rats eating it
to curb the problem the country imported
these small Asian Mongoose so they could
wipe out the rats
however the rats were able to adapt to
their new neighbors by operating
nocturnally while the mongooses remained
diurnal as a result both species have
actually turned into an issue for the
state if you're anything like us it can
be hard to find the time to read but
with audible we can have amazing stories
read to us during a commute while
cooking or even pumping iron audible has
an unmatched selection of audio books
featuring documentaries comedies
podcasts wellness programs theatrical
performances and exclusive audible
originals you can't find anywhere else
we recommend both 101 amazing facts
about the Nintendo SNES and 101 amazing
Nintendo NES facts for short trips or
chores if you want something more in
depth
we also suggest Super Mario Power
Nintendo conquered America if you're
interested in these easy to consume
books you can start a 30-day free trial
and get your first audiobook free at
audible.com slash Dyk as seen on screen
or if you're in the u.s. you can also
text an uppercase Dyk
to 500 500 again that's audible.com
slash gyk or take
Dyk two five zero zero five zero zero
inaudible membership includes one free
audiobook per month exclusive sales and
30 percent off all regularly priced
audiobooks and you can listen to your
books at anytime from anywhere right
from your phone so welcome back
everybody new year new Dyk g we're
getting back into the flow
January's a bit of a dry spot for us but
we've been walking on some bits in the
background you know you'll catch him
you'll catch him be sure to stick around
we might even be doing some more stuff
in your town soon if your town is known
as the Internet I'm sure we all
practically live on the internet anyway
so we'll be nearby see you guys on the
next episode